Example_underlay.md, before:

This document provides an example of using OVN with k8 in the underlay mode.

This requires that you have a OpenStack setup pre-installed with OVN
providing the underlay networking.  It is out of scope of this documentation
to describe how to create a OpenStack setup with OVN. Instead, please refer
http://docs.openstack.org/developer/networking-ovn/ for that.

Create two Ubuntu VMs on the same OVN logical switch.  The VMs need a minimum
of one network interface.  It is sometimes easier to plug an additional
network interface purely for mgmt connection.

Install docker python package

```
pip install docker-py
```

Prep the host with Open vSwitch and Linux bridge
===============================================

You will need to install openvswitch in the VMs. On Ubuntu, you can do it with:
```
apt-get install openvswitch-switch openvswitch-common -y
```

Create a linux bridge via which you plan to send your container
traffic. If your mgmt interface is 'eth0' and if your interface connected to
the OVN logical switch is 'eth1', you will need to create a bridge 'breth1'
and add 'eth1' as a port of that bridge. i.e.

```
brctl addbr breth1
brctl setageing breth1 0
brctl addif breth1 eth1
```

You will also need to remove the IP address from eth1 and move it to breth1
along with any route information.

Set neutron source file.

ovs-vsctl set open_vswitch . external_ids:neutron-config="/root/openrc"

Where the contents of /root/openrc will look like

```
OS_AUTH_URL=http://10.33.74.255:5000/v2.0
OS_TENANT_ID=015058d74d1c444b871fc39dbd4442b8
OS_TENANT_NAME="demo"
OS_USERNAME="demo"
OS_PASSWORD="password"
OS_VIF_ID=2233c32a-4092-4d8b-b44d-1c54f666c507
```

Create the Open vSwitch integration bridge "br-int" and attach it to the
Linux bridge via a veth interface.

```
ovs-vsctl add-br br-int

ip link add br-int-veth type veth peer name breth1-veth
ifconfig br-int-veth up
ifconfig breth1-veth up

ovs-vsctl add-port br-int br-int-veth

brctl addif breth1 breth1-veth
brctl hairpin breth1 breth1-veth off
```

Prep the host with Kubernetes components
========================================

On one of your VMs, you will need to start etcd and k8's central
components.

Download a stable version of etcd from https://github.com/coreos/etcd/releases.
Start etcd. For e.g:

```
nohup ./etcd --addr=127.0.0.1:4001 --bind-addr=0.0.0.0:4001 --data-dir=/var/etcd/data 2>&1 > /dev/null &
```

Download the latest stable kubernetes.tar.gz from:
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases

untar the file and look for kubernetes-server-linux-amd64.tar.gz. Untar that
file too. Copy kube-apiserver, kube-controller-manager, kube-scheduler,
kubelet and kubectl to a directory and start them. For e.g:

```
nohup ./kube-apiserver --portal-net=192.168.200.0/24 --address=0.0.0.0 --etcd-servers=http://127.0.0.1:4001 --cluster-name=kubernetes --v=2 2>&1 > /dev/null &

nohup ./kube-controller-manager --master=127.0.0.1:8080 --v=2 1>&2 > /dev/null &

nohup ./kube-scheduler --master=127.0.0.1:8080 --v=2 2>&1 > /dev/null &
```

Before you start the kubelet, you will need to copy the OVN network plugin to
a specific location:

```
mkdir -p /usr/libexec/kubernetes/kubelet-plugins/net/exec/ovn
cp ovn-k8-underlay.py /usr/libexec/kubernetes/kubelet-plugins/net/exec/ovn/ovn
```

Now start the kubelet and kube-proxy

```
nohup ./kubelet --api-servers=http://0.0.0.0:8080 --v=2 --address=0.0.0.0 --enable-server --hostname-override=$(hostname -i)  --network-plugin=ovn 2>&1 > /dev/null &

nohup ./kube-proxy --master=0.0.0.0:8080 --v=2 2>&1 > /dev/null &
```

On your second VM, you will need to copy the OVN plugin too and then start
only the kubelet. You can do this by:

```
MASTER_IP=$IP_OF_MASTER
nohup ./kubelet --api-servers=http://${MASTER_IP}:8080 --v=2 --address=0.0.0.0 --enable-server --hostname-override=$(hostname -i) --network-plugin=ovn 2>&1 > /dev/null &

nohup ./kube-proxy --master=${MASTER_IP}:8080 --v=2 2>&1 > /dev/null &
```

Cluster Setup
=============

Create a logical router in OVN (via OpenStack). (This support is currently
not part of OpenStack OVN plugin. So you should do this manually in OVN after
the below steps)

On host1, create a logical switch and all its logical ports in advance. You
then cache the ip, mac and vlan of the logical port locally. You can do this
by:

```
./ovn-k8-underlay.py lswitch-setup host1 192.168.1.0/29 router_id
```

On host2, do the same, but with a different subnet

```
./ovn-k8-underlay.py lswitch-setup host2 192.168.2.0/29 router_id
```

Eventually the above script will automatically attach the created logical
switch to a logical router. But since OpenStack does not yet have the
required feature, you will have to use 'ovn-nbctl' to connect the two
logical switches together to a logical router.

The above will provide the required connectivity for all the pods to be
able to speak to all the other pods in the cluster.

Load Balancing
==============

K8 kube-proxy provides iptables based stateful and distributed load-balancing.
To integrate this with OVN, a few commands need to be run on each host.

On each host, for the logical switch of that host, you will need get the mac
address of the default gateway. For e.g., with OpenStack, if the subnet is
192.168.1.0/29, the ip address of default gateway is usually 192.168.1.1.
Let us say the mac address of the default gateway in the logical space is
is $GW_MAC and its ip address is $GW_IP

Also you will need to know the larger subnet of all the pods in your k8
cluster. For e.g., if host1 subnet is 192.168.1.0/24 and host2 subnet is
192.168.2.0/24 and so on, your subnet for the entire cluster can be
192.168.0.0/16. Let us say that larger subnet is $CLUSTER_SUBNET

On each host, run the following commands:

```
ip neigh add $GW_IP lladdr $GW_MAC dev breth1 nud perm
route add -net $GW_IP  netmask 255.255.255.255 dev breth1
route add -net $CLUSTER_SUBNET_IP netmask $CLUSTER_SUBNET_NETMASK gw $GW_IP dev breth1
```

Start the pods
==============

You can now use kubectl to start some pods. The pods should be able to talk
to each other via IP adderss.

Start the services
==================

You should be able to access the service ip addresses from inside the pods.

Commit message:

Workaround a k8 hack.
k8 has a terrible hack wherein they enable hairpin mode
on every bridge in the host. This is bad behavior and will
need to change at the k8 end. Temporarily document it
and add a ovs-ofctl rule to disable icmpv6 traffic that
starts as soon as pod starts.

Signed-off-by: Gurucharan Shetty <gshetty@nicira.com>

Example_underlay.md, after:

This document provides an example of using OVN with k8 in the underlay mode.

This requires that you have a OpenStack setup pre-installed with OVN
providing the underlay networking.  It is out of scope of this documentation
to describe how to create a OpenStack setup with OVN. Instead, please refer
http://docs.openstack.org/developer/networking-ovn/ for that.

Create two Ubuntu VMs on the same OVN logical switch.  The VMs need a minimum
of one network interface.  It is sometimes easier to plug an additional
network interface purely for mgmt connection.

Install docker python package

```
pip install docker-py
```

Prep the host with Open vSwitch and Linux bridge
===============================================

You will need to install openvswitch in the VMs. On Ubuntu, you can do it with:
```
apt-get install openvswitch-switch openvswitch-common -y
```

Create a linux bridge via which you plan to send your container
traffic. If your mgmt interface is 'eth0' and if your interface connected to
the OVN logical switch is 'eth1', you will need to create a bridge 'breth1'
and add 'eth1' as a port of that bridge. i.e.

```
brctl addbr breth1
brctl setageing breth1 0
brctl addif breth1 eth1
```

You will also need to remove the IP address from eth1 and move it to breth1
along with any route information.

Set neutron source file.

ovs-vsctl set open_vswitch . external_ids:neutron-config="/root/openrc"

Where the contents of /root/openrc will look like

```
OS_AUTH_URL=http://10.33.74.255:5000/v2.0
OS_TENANT_ID=015058d74d1c444b871fc39dbd4442b8
OS_TENANT_NAME="demo"
OS_USERNAME="demo"
OS_PASSWORD="password"
OS_VIF_ID=2233c32a-4092-4d8b-b44d-1c54f666c507
```

Create the Open vSwitch integration bridge "br-int" and attach it to the
Linux bridge via a veth interface.

```
ovs-vsctl add-br br-int

ip link add br-int-veth type veth peer name breth1-veth
ifconfig br-int-veth up
ifconfig breth1-veth up

ovs-vsctl add-port br-int br-int-veth

brctl addif breth1 breth1-veth
```

Due to a terrible hack in k8 wherein they enable hairpin mode
in every linux bridge on the host, we need to run a script that
disables it. This hack can be removed once k8 moves to a plugin.


```
while true; do
brctl hairpin breth1 breth1-veth off
brctl hairpin breth1 eth1 off
done
```

Prep the host with Kubernetes components
========================================

On one of your VMs, you will need to start etcd and k8's central
components.

Download a stable version of etcd from https://github.com/coreos/etcd/releases.
Start etcd. For e.g:

```
nohup ./etcd --addr=127.0.0.1:4001 --bind-addr=0.0.0.0:4001 --data-dir=/var/etcd/data 2>&1 > /dev/null &
```

Download the latest stable kubernetes.tar.gz from:
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases

untar the file and look for kubernetes-server-linux-amd64.tar.gz. Untar that
file too. Copy kube-apiserver, kube-controller-manager, kube-scheduler,
kubelet and kubectl to a directory and start them. For e.g:

```
nohup ./kube-apiserver --portal-net=192.168.200.0/24 --address=0.0.0.0 --etcd-servers=http://127.0.0.1:4001 --cluster-name=kubernetes --v=2 2>&1 > /dev/null &

nohup ./kube-controller-manager --master=127.0.0.1:8080 --v=2 1>&2 > /dev/null &

nohup ./kube-scheduler --master=127.0.0.1:8080 --v=2 2>&1 > /dev/null &
```

Before you start the kubelet, you will need to copy the OVN network plugin to
a specific location:

```
mkdir -p /usr/libexec/kubernetes/kubelet-plugins/net/exec/ovn
cp ovn-k8-underlay.py /usr/libexec/kubernetes/kubelet-plugins/net/exec/ovn/ovn
```

Now start the kubelet and kube-proxy

```
nohup ./kubelet --api-servers=http://0.0.0.0:8080 --v=2 --address=0.0.0.0 --enable-server --hostname-override=$(hostname -i)  --network-plugin=ovn 2>&1 > /dev/null &

nohup ./kube-proxy --master=0.0.0.0:8080 --v=2 2>&1 > /dev/null &
```

On your second VM, you will need to copy the OVN plugin too and then start
the kubelet and kube-proxy. You can do this by:

```
MASTER_IP=$IP_OF_MASTER
nohup ./kubelet --api-servers=http://${MASTER_IP}:8080 --v=2 --address=0.0.0.0 --enable-server --hostname-override=$(hostname -i) --network-plugin=ovn 2>&1 > /dev/null &

nohup ./kube-proxy --master=${MASTER_IP}:8080 --v=2 2>&1 > /dev/null &
```

Cluster Setup
=============

Create a logical router in OVN (via OpenStack). (This support is currently
not part of OpenStack OVN plugin. So you should do this manually in OVN after
the below steps)

On host1, create a logical switch and all its logical ports in advance. You
then cache the ip, mac and vlan of the logical port locally. You can do this
by:

```
./ovn-k8-underlay.py lswitch-setup host1 192.168.1.0/29 router_id
```

On host2, do the same, but with a different subnet

```
./ovn-k8-underlay.py lswitch-setup host2 192.168.2.0/29 router_id
```

Eventually the above script will automatically attach the created logical
switch to a logical router. But since OpenStack does not yet have the
required feature, you will have to use 'ovn-nbctl' to connect the two
logical switches together to a logical router.

The above will provide the required connectivity for all the pods to be
able to speak to all the other pods in the cluster.

Load Balancing
==============

K8 kube-proxy provides iptables based stateful and distributed load-balancing.
To integrate this with OVN, a few commands need to be run on each host.

On each host, for the logical switch of that host, you will need get the mac
address of the default gateway. For e.g., with OpenStack, if the subnet is
192.168.1.0/29, the ip address of default gateway is usually 192.168.1.1.
Let us say the mac address of the default gateway in the logical space is
is $GW_MAC and its ip address is $GW_IP

Also you will need to know the larger subnet of all the pods in your k8
cluster. For e.g., if host1 subnet is 192.168.1.0/24 and host2 subnet is
192.168.2.0/24 and so on, your subnet for the entire cluster can be
192.168.0.0/16. Let us say that larger subnet is $CLUSTER_SUBNET

On each host, run the following commands:

```
ip neigh add $GW_IP lladdr $GW_MAC dev breth1 nud perm
route add -net $GW_IP  netmask 255.255.255.255 dev breth1
route add -net $CLUSTER_SUBNET_IP netmask $CLUSTER_SUBNET_NETMASK gw $GW_IP dev breth1
```

Start the pods
==============

You can now use kubectl to start some pods. The pods should be able to talk
to each other via IP adderss.

Start the services
==================

You should be able to access the service ip addresses from inside the pods.
